Rungnarai Kiatmookao, the Lumpinee superflyweight champion, is the king of the division in Thailand. But as  matchmaking in Thailand is heavily based on gambling interest, he's been forced to take fights at bantamweight recently with mixed success. He's suffered two knockout losses this year at the hands of bigger fighters like Detchaiya or Yothin and seems to have reached the point where his skills aren't enough to reliably bridge the physical gap between him and his opponents.

He was faced with a fairer and in my opinion much more interesting challenge this week, defending his title at a catchweight of 112.5lbs against the Rajadamnern flyweight champion Phetsommai Sor Sommai. Phetsommai like Rungnarai is a great technician and the best in Thailand at his weight and the match up  can definitely be called a superfight.

After a feeling out period, the fight started for a good in the third when Rungnarai scored a knockdown with a brilliant lean back to left hook counter off of a Phetsommai left high kick. Phetsommai put in a good effort to try to get back into the fight with his boxing and elbows but Rungnarai was excellent defensively, chose his spots to clinch and scored with his great teep to get the decision.

The fight was an exhibition of Muay Thai at its highest level and was hopefully the start of a long rivalry as Phetsommai definitely proved to be worthy foe to Rungnarai despite the loss.

On the same card, Yothin FA Group (red corner, #7 bantamweight at Rajadamnern, #4 at Lumpinee) faced Samingdet Nor.Anuwatgym (blue corner, #9 superbantamweight at Rajadamnern, #8 at Lumpinee) perhaps the best elbow specialist in Thailand now that Muangthai is on the downside of his stadium career.

Samingdet put in some great elbow work in the third and seemed to have done enough when the 5th started. However both fighters appeared to think they had it and they danced much of the last round away and took their chances with the judges. The verdict ended up being a draw, which I personally don't see as I think Samingdet was a clear winner, but controversial decisions are as much a part of Muay thai as they are any combat sport.

Still at Lumpinee, Satanmuanglek Petchyindee (red corner) is coming back to Muay Thai more regularly after spending much of the last two years in boxing, where he put in a good but unsuccessful effort against Japan's Hiroto Kyoguchi for the WBA flyweight title in June. Welcoming him back was a familiar opponent, Phetnarin Jitmuangnon (#8 flyweight at Rajadamnern) whom he'd beaten in March.

Satanmuanglek didn't get to show too much of his boxing as Phetnarin drowned him in the clinch for much of the fight and got the decision. It is a shame for Satanmuanglek that there aren't really opportunities to fight internationally for fighters his size. With his style, boxing experience and maybe starting to get a big old for the stadium scene at 26, he'd be ripe for a potential kickboxing career were he a bit bigger.

 Phetsupan Por Daorungruang isn't particularly athletically gifted compared to some of the fighters that populate the rankings of the two major Muay Thai stadiums, Rajadamnern and Lumpinee. He doesn't have the speed of some of the top kickers (Muay Tae), the power of the best pressure fighters (Muay Bouk) or the length and strength needed to be a dominant clincher (Muay Pam), what he does have however, is one of the deepest bag of tricks in Muay Thai and the brain to find out how to apply them against almost anybody. His varied set ups, feints, well timed footsweeps and excellent fight IQ have allowed him to conquer the Rajadamnern superflyweight belt and carried him to an excellent 11-3 record in 2018 and 2019. He was riding a six fight win streak capped off by a close win over Rajadamnern Phetsommai Sor Sommai going into his thursday fight, unfortunately, subtle versatility doesn't always pay off.

 His opponent, Kumandoi Phetjaroenvit, was a familiar foe, the pair having met thrice before, with Phetsupan going 2-1.Unlike the champion, Kumandoi's style isn't likely to be described at subtle. Quick and powerful, his plan is simple, if he is ahead, he'll kick you as hard as he can and if he's behind he'll come after you and try to kick and punch you as hard as he can. His approach doesn't yield the most consistent results as he is 6-5-1 in 2018/2019 but it makes him dangerous for anybody and a 4-1 run with 2 big stoppages win in his last 5 led him to the 2nd spot in the bantamweight rankings in both Rajadamnern and Lumpinee.

 The fight was over before it really began, as early in the second round, Kumandoi staggered Phetsupan with a right hand, immediately following it with a left high kick that knocked the stumbling Phetsupan out cold. An excellent win for Kumandoi, confirming his solid recent form. Phetsupan will remain the champion as the fight was contested at a 116 pounds catchweight but it's a very tough loss bringing an excellent run to a halt.

 Elsewhere on the as usual rather stacked thursday card, 16 year old Kongchai Chanaidonmuang (#5 Ranked flyweight at Rajadamnern, #2 at Lumpinee) put in a great performance, dominating and knocking out Fahlun Por Phetkaikaew (#5 ranked lightflyweight at Rajadamnern, #3 at Lumpinee) with a beautiful high kick.

 Gingsanglek Tor Laksong, one of the best technicians in Thailand, dominated the early rounds of his fight against Apiwat (#5 ranked featherweight at Raja) but tremendous pressure from Apiwat starting in the 4th brought him back in the fight and got him the win. A nice comeback and one of the most enjoyable fights of the week.

 In the night's main event, the technically brilliant but sometimes frustrating Kompatak Sinbee Muaythai (#2 ranked super bantamweight at both Rajadamnern and Lumpinee) dominated Suriyanlek PorYenying (#1 at both Rajadamnern and Lumpinee), mostly with his lighting quick lead leg, to the point that Suriyanlek conceded defeat at the start of the fifth round. A second great performance in a row for Kompatak, leaving me very interested in a match up with Rajadamnern champion Kongthoranee Sor Sommai.

Other Notable results:

Tuesday at Lumpinee:

Ponek Aor.Kwanmuang (red corner, #2 ranked welterweight at Rajadamnern, #2 at Lumpinee) beat Rungnapha Pinsinchai (blue corner) by decision

Thongchai Phetrungruang (red corner) beat Yodchai Yokkaosenchai (blue corner, #10 ranked lightweight at Lumpinee) by fifth round KO (left hook)

Wednesday Rajadamnern:

Sayanlek Sor.Salasip (red corner, #9 ranked lightflyweight at Rajadamnern, #4 at Lumpinee) vs Phetanuwat Nor.Anuwatgym (blue corner, #4 at  Rajadamnern, #2 at Lumpinee)
Sayanlek hurt Phetanuwat with a boxing combo early in the third, who never seemed to recover and went through the motions en route to a decision loss.

Kaito Wor.Wanchai (red corner, #4 ranked superflyweight at Rajadamnern) vs Kaomongkol Petchyindee Academy (blue corner)
Japanese fighter Kaito got thoroughly outclinched by Kaomongkol.

Thursday at Rajadamnern :

Hanpon Kor.Suwantas (blue corner) beat Sanphet Sor.Salasip (red corner, #9 ranked featherweight at Rajadamnern) by decision

Teplikit Sit Aor.Chao (red corner, #3 ranked miniflyweight at Rajadamnern) beat Krungthai Teeded 99 (blue corner) by decision

Friday at Lumpinee:

Kaipa 13 Rianresort (red corner, #9 ranked bantamweight Raja) beat Jomtong Sakvichian (blue corner) by second round KO (right hand)

Rungnarai Mor.Rattanabandit (blue corner, Lumpinee superflyweight champion, #3 at Rajadamnern) beat Desellek Wor.Wanchai (red corner, #1 bantamweight at Rajadamnern, #7 at Lumpinee) by decision.
Superflyweight king Rungnarai continues to rebound from a surprise KO defeat suffered at bantamweight in march with a second trip to the division, where he quite easily dispatched #1 Raja Bantamweight Desellek.


 Saeksan Or Kwanmuang is something of an anomaly in Muay Thai. He has been the most exciting in Thailand for years, a relentless pressure fighter (Muay Bouk) fighting war after war in his almost 15 years at the highest level of Muay Thai. And yet at 30, despite a style that should have seen him decline years ago, Saeksan keeps defying common wisdom and father time, giving Thailand's finest all they can handle and capturing the Rajadamnern lightweight title in November.

 His opponent on wednesday, Kaonar PKSaenchai, is something of a polar opposite, a slick and classy technician at distance and one of Thailand's very best throw artists, whether it is from the clinch or as a catch and sweeper. The two were familiar with each other, having fought a series of close and exciting fights last year ending in two wins for Kaonar and a draw but their fourth this week ended up being their finest and a Fight of the Year contender.

 Kaonar built an early lead behing his jab and left middle kick but Saeksan put on a hellish pace and constant pressure in the late rounds to turn the fight into the kind of close quarter wars he is so fond of. Kaonar put on a valiant effort as they traded knees and elbows in the fourth, but Saeksan would ultimately prevail, getting his first win over Kaonar in four tries and defending his Rajadamnern title.

 Saeksan will now turn to kickboxing and Japan where he will compete in the semi final round of the Rise 61kg tournament in July but with such a close and entertaining series I'd be surprised if a fifth fight with Kaonar didn't materialise at some point in the future.

 The main event was a perfect way to cap a very entertaining card that saw 18 year old Rajadamnern super-featherweight champion Rungkit Wor Sangprapai defeat veteran Phet-U-Thong by a nasty low kick KO in the third round. A solid win as Rungkit also prepares to compete in japan in July in the 57kg Rise tournament where he is the putative favorite to meet Japanese superstar Tenshin Nasukawa in the finals.

 Elsewhere on the card, Lumpinee featherweight champion Chalam Paranchai scored a magnificent spear elbow KO over Detsakda Pukongyat and veteran Wanchalong PKSaenchai scored his biggest win in recent years with a high kick KO over Puenkon Tor Surath.

22 year old Jonathan Haggerty (12-2, 10 KOs) made waves when he beat veteran and modern great Sam-A Gaiyanghadao for the ONE Championship flyweight Muay Thai title. Even if Sam-A was coming out of a two year retirement and is an ancient by Thai standards 35 years old, that was a fantastic win for the English prospect. He was facing an even stiffer challenge in Rodtang Jitmuangnon for his first defense though. Rodtang has established himself as the leading Thai action fighter over the last couple of years, most notably with the 2018 kickboxing FOTY against Japanese star Tenshin Nasukawa.

Haggerty controlled the early rounds with his excellent lead leg. He established his front kick and then feinted off of it to land low, middle kicks and boxing combinations. In traditional Thai fashion, Rodtang started slow and used the early rounds to read Haggerty's game. Rodtang started to punish the Englishman's lead leg work with low kicks and front kick catches to body left hooks (a favorite technique of Buakaw) in the second. Once his answer to Haggerty's work was established, Rodtang started to put the pressure on in the third, forcing boxing exchanges which culminated in a knockdown in the fourth. Rodtang let his foot off the gas in the fifth but still took a decision in a great fight. Rodtang will have a quick turnaround and is fighting Rajadamnern champion Saeksan on August 16th in what could be a passing of the "most exciting Thai fighter" torch. Despite the setback Haggerty is clearly one of the best young international talents in the sport.

Over at Rajadamnern stadium, featherweight champion Yodkitsada Yuthchonburi was defending his belt against Phetpangan Mor Rattanabandit. Both of them recently had unfortunate experiences in Japan, getting stopped by Takeru and Masashi Kumura respectively in K-1. Back to their Muay Thai roots however, they gave us an excellent clinch battle. Yodkitsada notably landed some very good right hands off of clinch breaks. Both fighters showed excellent knee and off balancing work. Ultimately, a well timed sweep from Phetpangan, his better kick game and a slight advantage in the clinch in the fifth allowed him to win a razor close decision and the Rajadamnern belt.

At Lumpinee stadium, Pongsiri PKSaenchai (#2 superwelterweight at Rajadamnern, #4 welterweight at Lumpinee) faced Singsuriya Mor.Rattanabandit (#3 welterweight at Rajadamnern, #1 Lumpinee). Pongsiri took a decision thanks to his middle kick and a few well timed sweeps, but Singsuriya who is scheduled to fight Masaaki Noiri in K-1 this month showed a very kickboxing ready style in a solid effort.

Also at Lumpinee stadium, Mohox Teeded99 (#7 flyweight at Rajadamnern) showed some very interesting work, particularly with his handfighting to set up his left knee but got drawn into a brawl and KO'd in the third by Priewpak Sor.Jor.Vichitpadriew.


Other notable results:

Monday at Rajadamnern:

Samingdam Miamikhondobangpoo (blue corner) beat Saoek Sitchefbuntham (red corner) by decision.
Samingdam showed off his excellent clinch, dominating Saoek in this battle of fighters on the cusp of the major stadium rankings.
PhetSuwan (red corner) beat Yodmanop (blue corner) by second round KO (right hand)


Tuesday at Lumpinee:

View Phetkoson (#9 SBW Lumpinee, red corner) beat Pomphet Sitnumnoi (blue corner) by second round KO (right hand)
 

Watcharapon P.K.Saenchai vs Phetpairin Sitnumnoi

Tubtimtong (#4 LFLW Lumpinee, red corner) beat Hongkaow Arawan (blue corner) by decision.

Yuthapon Nor.Narisson (#10 LFLW Lumpinee, red corner) beat Kampanath Phor.Lakboon (#4 MFLW Lumpinee, blue corner) by first round TKO (low kicks)


Wednesday at Rajadamnern:

Kaito Wor.Wanchai (#6 SFLW Rajadamnern, red corner) beat Jaroenrit Rawaimuaythai (blue corner) by decision.

Auto Muangpapoom (#10 SFLW Rajadamnern, red corner) beat Thayat O.Prasoet (blue corner) by 3rd round KO (left hook)
Phlaiphayak (red corner) beat Yodkla (blue corner) by first round KO (elbows)

Thursday at Rajadamnern:

Mathee Sor.Jor.Toypadriew (red corner) beat Detchaiya Petchyindee (#4 BW Rajadamnern, #6 Lumpinee, blue corner) by decision.

Phetsukhumwit Boybangna (blue corner) beat Namphongnoi Sor.Sommai (red corner) by second round KO

Friday at Lumpinee:
.
Chalamsuk Sitprakayfah (blue corner) beat Rungnapa Pinsinchai (red corner) by 4th round KO (left hook)
Chalamsuk KO4 crochet gauche

In thursday's main event at Rajadamnern Stadium, Samingdet Nor Anuwatgym (#4 ranked superbantamweight at Rajadamnern, #8 at Lumpinee) was taking on Detchaiya Petchyindee (#8 ranked bantamweight at Rajadamnern, #6 at Lumpinee). Samingdet is a very well rounded southpaw, able to handle himself well at distance or in the clinch but truly shines as an elbow specialist (Muay Sok). He came into the fight on an excellent 6-1-1 run and is establishing himself as one of the best in the talent rich superbantamweight division.

 His opponent Detchaiya is a dangerous boxer-clincher. He is 2-2 so far in 2019 but perfectly able to play spoiler against the best as evidenced by his recent KO win over superflyweight king Rungnarai.
 
 Samingdet controlled the early action at distane against his smaller opponent with his middle and high kicks. Detchaiya managed some clinching success early in the third but that prompted Samingdet to bust out his elbows. Detchaiya sustained a cut on the corner of the eye and finally got sliced up and stopped by a beautiful spear elbow.

 Earlier in the evening, lightflyweight Rajadamnern champion Praewprao Muayded789 lost to Suntos Sor Saranpath in a fight that highlighted the challenges posed by the scoring system to pressure fighters (Muay Bouk). The technician Suntos went up on the scorecards early by keeping Praewprao at bay, until the third were Praewprao applied tremendous pressure and badly hurt Suntos towards the end of the round. Praewprao was now up on the cards, however agression is not seen in Thailand as favorably as it is in western combat sports, and the fighter coming forward is generally seen as the one trying to come back in the fight. Thus, Praewprao was more or less forced to fight against type in the 4th and 5th, giving Suntos the opportunity to get back into the fight and take a close decision.



